- [sighs]
[vehicle approaching]
[tires screech]
[car door opens. slams]
[tense music]
- [groaning]
- [speaking Dinﾃｩ]
What happened?
[speaking Dinﾃｩ]
- [panting] She's coming.
- Who? Who's coming?
Oh.
Okay. Okay.
I'm here with you.
I'm here...
[speaking Dinﾃｩ]
Just breathe.
Breathe.
[crying]
[speaking Dinﾃｩ]
[sobbing]
[thudding]
[thud]
[engine humming]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[engine turns off]
[car door slams]
- [grunting]
[panting]
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
[footsteps approaching]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[breathing rapidly]
[gun cocks]
[gunshot]
[panting] No.
No. no.
[gasping] No. no. no!
[gunshots]
[moody guitar music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[camera shutter clicks]
[sheep bleating]
- Chee.
- I'm good.
Agent.
- Riding out to Hunt's Mesa
first thing tomorrow.
and I think you should come.
- On the job?
- No. a quick sweat.
- We just turned up two bodies.
- One you inspected personally
inside of a death hogan.
- [chuckles]
[horse whinnying]
- Now's the time unless you
want a... [speaking Dinﾃｩ]
To take hold.
- I'm fine.
- Emma used to say
the same thing to me.
She'd give me speeches
like I'm giving you now.
I was too busy.
There was always a case.
- There always is.
- What I'm saying is
I never prioritized it.
But I should have.
Because you'll never make it
in this line of work
unless you do.
Neither will
your relationships.
It helps if you're open to it.
- Thanks.
But like I said. I'm fine.
- [sighs]
We just gotta pull
the van around for the old man.
- His name is Ashie Begay.
He's an elder in our community.
We haven't examined
the body yet.
so why don't you relax?
[lighter clicking]
- You got as long
as this takes.
[grim music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- It's through and through
in the shoulder.
high caliber rifle in the back.
At distance. I'd guess.
- Two rounds to center of mass.
point blank range.
Same MO as the witnesses
from the diner.
- Those two at the diner
didn't have their hair washed
and their shoes switched like
a traditional Navajo burial.
- Not quite.
Ring's not on the index
finger or the thumb.
Body's facing west. not north.
- It's not much of a cover-up.
- Then why do it?
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- Let's find out
what Billie Tsosie knows
after we tell her
what happened to her family.
- [sighs]
- Maybe we should go outside
and talk about this privately.
- Just tell me.
- [sighs]
- I'm sorry. but Albert
and your grandfather
were found dead.
- No. no!
[sobbing]
[eerie music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- [sniffs]
[water running]
[phone ringing]
- Try and start small.
the basics about Albert.
Whatever you can remember
will be helpful.
- I don't remember
anything. okay?
[sniffles]
I mean. I haven't seen him
since I was. like. nine or ten.
- Why did Albert
come back here?
What were you doing
with him for three days?
[pensive music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
What is it?
What did he want?
- Leroy.
He--he was looking for
my cousin Leroy. his brother.
- Does Leroy live on the rez?
- No. but he was here.
Albert. he had a picture.
- A picture of what?
- Leroy standing in front
of an Airstream trailer
by a river
with cottonwood trees and--
- You still have it. the photo?
- Albert had it.
- Well. we didn't
find it anywhere.
- I still--
I still have this.
I mean. that was
everywhere we looked.
You have to find Leroy.
He's the only family
I have left.
You have to find him.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- Started with the San Juan.
Smart.
- It's the only major river
with cottonwood trees.
Billie knows the rez.
That's why Albert needed her.
- Three days?
They wouldn't just miss
an Airstream parked
on the banks of the San Juan.
both:
Unless--
- The monsoons.
- Last month.
- They flooded the desert.
- It would have looked like
a river to Albert and Billie
in the photo.
- Mm-hmm. But it wasn't.
It was a wash.
- So we're looking
for a wash on the rez.
ripe with cottonwoods.
Right here.
- There.
[chuckles]
What?
[door opens]
- Ahem.
- Mm!
Hey. Hey.
- I just needed staples...
[speaking Dinﾃｩ]
- Right.
- For my stapler.
- Yeah. yeah.
- Thanks. Sergeant.
Here you go. Deputy.
[clears throat]
[engine humming]
- How you doing?
How's it going?
- Okay.
- Good.
That blonde woman
been back here?
- Oh. you would have been
the first one I called.
- Mm.
Mind if I park here
and poke around a little?
- Go for it.
- Thank you.
[engine turns over]
[suspenseful music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[sighs]
[sheep bleating]
[ominous music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- [sniffs]
- Son of a bitch.
- [sighs]
[chuckles]
- [chuckles]
- Well. our secret's out.
Means you can. uh--
you know. we can
move in together.
That's what was holding
you back. wasn't it?
- We just talked
about it yesterday. Chee.
- Well. I'm not pressuring you.
I'm just saying.
The only thing
better than solving crimes
with the woman I love
would be coming home to her
at night.
I really do love you.
Bernadette.
And I told you.
I'm not gonna hold back.
- I love you. too. Chee.
- Actually. there is one thing
that could beat this--
running the NTP
after Leaphorn retires--
together.
- [chuckles]
- You notice he's been. uh.
spending more time in sweat
than working cases these days?
You know. I think he's finally
decided he's had enough.
Between the FBI agent
and Emma leaving.
it was finally
too much for him.
Could be any day now.
You don't think so?
- No. I don't.
- [clears throat]
That's the wash.
It was probably full
of water a week ago.
- Huh.
Cottonwoods.
just like Billie said.
- Sorry. officers.
You caught me on laundry day.
- Leroy Gorman?
- No. ma'am.
But shoot.
I've been expecting you.
- Oh. really?
- Yeah.
Do you believe
in manifestation?
- What's your name. sir?
- Uh. Phillip Grayson.
- You got ID?
- Yeah.
Inside.
- This has you listed
in Albuquerque. Mr. Grayson.
- Yeah.
No. I work as a part-time
janitor down at UNM
and spend my summers up here.
- Do you live here alone?
- I don't got a wife or kids.
if that's what you're asking.
- It wasn't.
- We're looking
for a Leroy Gorman.
He lives in a trailer
just like this one.
Do you know him?
- No. I don't. but. you know.
there's a lot of folks
who come and go
in these parts.
[suspenseful music]
- Have you seen a green van
come up this way?
- Yeah.
You know. I did. like.
about a week ago.
- Are you sure
it was a week ago?
- Yeah. no. positive.
Tuesday's laundry day.
- Did you get a look
at the driver?
- Yeah. white chick.
You know.
she was looking for a spot
to fish or something.
- Was she blonde?
The woman you saw?
- [exhales] Could have been.
I don't know.
- Well. if you see
that van again.
just call it
into the station. okay?
Kayenta.
- I'll be happy to stop by
and talk to you.
- Yeah.
Thank you for your time.
- All right.
- A week ago is before
Albert Gorman took Billie
from St. Catherine's.
So the killer wasn't
out here looking for him.
- Well. she was
looking for Leroy.
[engine turns over]
[phone rings]
- Navajo Tribal Police.
Hey. line one.
- Who is it?
- It's her.
[tense music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- This is Lieutenant Leaphorn.
- It's so good to talk
to you. Lieutenant.
- Who's this?
- [chuckles]
You know who it is.
- What's your name?
- You're too smart
to play stupid.
- I'm not playing.
This isn't a game.
- No. It's not a game.
The loss of an elder is
a tragedy. even in my culture.
I tried to do it right.
Wanted to be respectful
to him and to you.
- Well. thank you.
Why don't you come down here
to the station in Kayenta.
and we can talk this out
together respectfully?
- [chuckles]
Stop playing games.
- It's an offer to end this
before anyone else gets hurt.
including you.
- Me?
You care about me. Joe?
- Well. it's my job
to care about everyone
on the reservation.
You're still here
doing yours. aren't you?
- [laughs]
Why would you think that?
- Because the job
isn't finished.
It wasn't Albert Gorman.
was it?
- [chuckles]
Go ahead. Lieutenant.
Tell me what my job is.
- Albert's brother.
Leroy Gorman.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- Be careful.
Or I'll have to come for you.
- If whoever keeps you
on their payroll
hears you never found Leroy
Gorman on the reservation.
you're gonna have
a big problem on your hands.
Once you're off the
reservation. I can't help you.
But I can still
help keep you safe.
- No. stop!
I decide who's safe and who's
not. including the girl.
Drop the case.
Leave it to the Feds.
- Well. that's gonna be tough.
but I'm willing to keep talking
if you want--
- Stop. No.
[sighs]
I'm giving you the choice
to keep the girl's shoes
where they are.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- She's out here
looking for Leroy Gorman.
I think Albert showed up
before she could find Leroy.
and everything went to hell.
- I just got off the phone
with the bus station clerk
in Scarborough.
He said that he sold a ticket
to a man named Leroy Gorman.
Bought a ticket to Flagstaff
and a connection
to Los Angeles.
- When was this?
- Last week.
- But why would Leroy
go back to LA?
- I think there's a good chance
he didn't
know anyone anywhere else.
If he's hiding from this woman.
he'd do better with help.
I'll call Flagstaff.
let them know about Leroy
and that we made contact
with the killer.
- Okay. well. what are we
gonna do about Billie?
- [sighs] We hold on
to her until it's safe.
- And then what?
- Well. with Leroy gone.
she doesn't have
anyone else on the reservation.
Nowhere to go
but back to school.
[tense music]
- What?
- Hey.
[door closes]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- [panting]
- [breathing heavily]
[birds cawing]
Do you know how many times I
ran away from St. Catherine's?
15.
[sniffles]
[sighs]
One time. in protest.
after being returned. I--
I climbed up the flagpole.
and I wouldn't come down.
- That was you?
I can't go back there.
I could stand it when my...
[speaking Dinﾃｩ]
Was waiting for me back home.
But I didn't even
get to say goodbye.
[crying]
[birds cawing]
[Jay Begaye's
"Saving Dookﾃｳﾃｳslﾃｭﾃｭd"]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- [speaking Dinﾃｩ]
[both speaking Dinﾃｩ]
- [sighs]
[engine humming]
[engine stops]
[horse whinnying]
- [groans]
[distant dog barking]
[bottle pops. hisses]
[uneasy music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- So. um...
what's gonna happen to me?
- Well. for now
you stay with me.
Protective custody
until it's safe.
- And after you get tired
of playing babysitter?
[pensive music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- I don't know.
You may have to go back
to St. Catherine's.
at least for a little while.
- I'm not going back there.
- I know it's not ideal.
But you'll get through it.
I did.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- So where's my cousin Leroy?
- He bought a bus ticket
back to LA.
Whatever he's mixed up in.
it's bad.
- You're gonna look
for him. right?
- [sighs]
The NTP doesn't
have the resources
to find a person in LA.
And even if we did.
we can't operate off the rez.
Hey.
When things settle down.
I'll make some calls.
Sergeant Chee knows
some people out there.
but it's gonna take some time.
- I don't have time.
- I know it feels
that way right now.
But you gotta have
some patience.
And I need you to trust me.
- [sniffles] Can I?
- [breathes in]
[vehicle approaching]
[engine stops]
- Leaphorn thinks that
the killer was in his house
when she called.
Sent me to help keep watch.
- Well. I'll take the company.
[sighs]
[horses whinnying]
- [sighs]
[groans]
Oh. Oh.
[sighs]
How's the girl?
- Mm. she's scared.
But she'll be okay.
- You're really good with her.
[chuckles] She trusts you.
- There's something
I have to tell you.
You're not gonna like it.
- Okay.
- [sighs]
You're right about Joe.
He's retiring.
And he asked me to take
his place when he goes.
- What do you mean?
- As lieutenant to run the NTP.
- [sighs]
- He asked me not to say
anything until it's official.
- So when I asked you today
if you thought he was retiring.
you knew all this?
- I'm sorry.
- [sighs]
Joe wanted to be
the one to tell you.
What was I supposed to do?
- Not lie.
[tense music]
[sighs]
How long have you
been keeping this from me?
- Since before
I came back to work.
- [scoffs]
So you came back because
Joe offered you the job.
not because I wanted you to?
- [scoffs] It's my dream. Jim.
You know. I thought you.
out of all people.
would understand that.
Jim.
- I think I better
take first watch.
- Hey. Jim.
Please.
J--
- [sighs]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[breathing heavily]
[unsettling music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[pensive music]
- [sighs]
Well. shit.
I didn't think you could
wake up this early.
[horse whinnying]
- Couldn't sleep.
- [sighs] When I ride back
from Hunt's Mesa. I swear.
I feel like
I've slept for a week.
- So this is how you think
you'll spend your days?
You know. after you retire?
- I don't know.
Come on.
We got a long ride ahead of us.
- No.
I'd rather not hear you
spout your bullshit
for a six-hour ride
up and back.
You do know what you're doing
after you retire.
You know exactly.
When were you planning
to tell me?
After you cleaned out your desk
or after you put Bern--
- I didn't want you
to find out this way. Jim.
- I'm a detective. Joe.
It's what I do.
- [sighs]
Sorry.
- You know. these last few
years riding around the rez
with you. I'd joke
whenever I could.
keep things light for you.
See. I saw how much the job
was taking a toll. Joe.
But I guess I must have told
too many jokes
somewhere along the way 'cause
now you think I'm a joke.
- You're wrong.
- Well. if that was true.
you would have sat me down.
looked me in the eye.
and told me man-to-man.
- There are protocols
for these things.
- I pulled you out
of that canyon.
Me. Joe.
Joe. me.
You know. when you
were bleeding out.
I didn't worry about protocols.
I put my life on the line
like I do every day.
against everything. anyone.
even the FBI.
What. you didn't think that
I knew the moment
they found Vines out
in the desert what you did?
- [sighs]
- I would have done
anything for you.
- I know that.
- You should have told me.
- You weren't ready to hear it.
and you still aren't.
You're a good cop. Jim.
But Bern's the right choice.
She lives her traditions.
our culture.
more than you or me have
or ever will.
You can't survive
this job without that.
- You did.
- You know. when I
look at you. I see me.
It's exactly why
it can't be you.
- You're so full of shit.
It's coming out
of your eyes. man.
'Cause no matter how many times
you ride out to the desert.
you won't sweat away
who you are--
a liar to your partner.
everyone you work with.
even your wife.
- Hey.
- That's the truth. Joe.
That's why Emma's gone.
But hey. enjoy your sweat.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[car door opens]
[car door slams.
engine turns over]
- [sighs]
[sighs]
- Billie! Come on. breakfast.
Come on. it's getting cold!
[sighs]
[knocking on door]
Come on. breakfast.
No. No. no. no.
[tense music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
Joe. it's Bern.
Billie's gone.
I--
[radio crackles]
I think she
slipped out last night.
I repeat. Billie Tsosie is no
longer in protective custody.
Do you copy?
[radio crackles]
Joe. I repeat.
Billie took off.
I--I think she went to go look
for her cousin in Los Angeles.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
Do you copy?
Joe. please answer me.
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- [sighs]
[gun cocks]
[tense music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- I didn't mean
to interrupt you.
Are--are you finished?
I respect what you do here.
I do.
It's beautiful.
I've read about these in books.
but to see one in the flesh?
Ah.
Men don't build things
with their bare hands anymore.
They can't live off the land.
They're not survivors--
or men at all.
But you?
Your craftsmanship...
Is exquisite.
- What do you want?
- I told you what I want.
I'm glad to see that you're
getting things back in balance.
You will leave the case
to the Feds.
- You stay away from the girl.
- I will do whatever
you make me do.
So don't make me do it.
- Put the gun down.
- I--I would--
I would never hurt you.
I--[sighs]
I care about you.
And you care about me.
We--we are two opposing forces
in a spiritual union.
[intense music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
[panting]
[chuckles]
I will not say goodbye.
I will say...
until we see each other again.
[Harry Nilsson's "One"]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
- 笙ｪ One is
the loneliest number 笙ｪ
笙ｪ That you'll ever do 笙ｪ
笙ｪ Two can be as bad as one 笙ｪ
笙ｪ It's the loneliest number
since the number one 笙ｪ
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
笙ｪ No is the saddest experience
you'll ever know 笙ｪ
[unsettling music]
笙ｪ 笙ｪ
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today